
Well, I had a decent night’s sleep last night and, you know, I
think it was important work.
Well, I want what’s best for Britain, and I think what’s best
for Britain is staying in a reformed European Union, because we’ll
be better off safeguarding our position in this massive single free
market that we have in Europe. I think we’ll be stronger in the
world, being able to get things done, whether that’s making sure
our country is safe and our people are safe, and I think we’ll fight
terrorism and criminality better. We’ll be safer inside the EU
because we’re able to work with our partners, strength in
numbers in a dangerous world. That I think is a positive choice for
us. I think a leap in the dark with uncertainty already in our world,
why take a further risk? You don’t need to. We’ve now got a
better deal.
Well, what we’ve achieved, which I think is a big achievement
is to say that for new arrivals they will get child benefit not at
British rates but at a rate that reflects the cost of living in their
country, and for existing people here, over the next few years
we’ll move to a system where they get that lower rate of child
benefit too. Now, these are things that many people thought were
impossible to achieve. Not least your last guest on the
programme, who argued for welfare restrictions, said they were
very important, and now we’ve got them seems to say they’re
irrelevant.
I’m very happy to look at the manifesto, what we promised,
getting out of ever-closer union. We got out of ever-closer union.
Making sure we trade –
Absolutely, it’s a negotiation. But you can see in each case
what I’ve asked for and what we got. And we got many things
that people said were simply not achievable. Nigel Farage and
others said you’ll never get Britain out of ever-closer union, and
we have. What this means is the best of both worlds –
- because we’re out of the things we don’t want to be in: the
euro, we’re out of the no borders agreement, we’re now out of
ever-closer union. We keep the full access and the say over the
single market, and the political cooperation to keep the people of
our country safe.
Well, that’s right. What we’ve said we wanted is you shouldn’t
get something for nothing. You have to pay into our system
before you get out of it, and you won’t get full access to our inwork
benefit system for four years. And what I think I’ve achieved
that is, I think, even more strong, is that this mechanism is going
to last for seven years. So let’s say we get it in place in 2017. It’ll
still be operating in 2024 when people won’t be getting full benefit
at until 2028.
Well, if you come here, even in 2024, you’re not going to get
full access to our in-work benefit system till 2018.
Well, what we’ve said is that you get nothing to start with
and you don’t get full access till after four years. And now we
have to settle the details and put all that in place, which we will.
What we know is you – you get no benefits to start with and
you don’t get full access for four years. No more something for
nothing. Everyone has to pay in before they get out. Again, I
think something people said we wouldn’t achieve and actually
something that has been achieved.
can get 90 per cent of benefits.
Well, it’s going to be phased in over four years.
So you don’t get the full – actually we’re going to settle all
that later. But it’s a very important move, because people want a
country where there is no something for nothing. You don’t come
here and immediately claim benefits. You have to pay in first. And
I think this is important.
Yes, it’s absolutely doable. It’s not a difficult calculation. You
just have to work out the relative cost of living in different
countries and therefore you pay that level of child benefit. But it
does raise –
Look, all of this is deliverable, otherwise I wouldn’t have
agreed to it. And it, I think, meets what we set out in our
manifesto, the commitments that we made. But I would make this 
point, because it was interesting listening to Nigel Farage. If we
were to leave the EU and we were to try and insist on full access
to the single market, like Norway has for instance, every other
country that’s got that sort of deal has had to accept the free
movement of people and a contribution to the EU budget.
I’ll come onto that. But it would be ironic actually if we left
the EU, negotiated our way back into full access to the single
market and then wouldn’t be able to exercise these welfare
restrictions that I’ve just negotiated. Now, what Nigel Farage was
saying, and this is important, of course there is the option of
having a trade deal with the EU. But you could look at all of the
trade deals, they do not cover every industry. And this is crucial.
Well, it hasn’t been finished. It’s been going for seven years.
And I think this goes to the heart of the argument. If we remain
in a reformed EU you know what you’re going to get, you know
how to do business, you know how to create jobs. You know how
to continue with our economic recovery. If we leave, seven years
potentially of uncertainty. And at the end of that process you still
can’t be certain that our businesses will have full access to the
market, so it could cost jobs, it could mean businesses, overseas
businesses not investing in Britain. It would be a step into the
dark, a real risk and uncertainty, and that’s just the last thing we
need in our country right now.
Well, absolutely. That what we’ve get – getting out of evercloser
union, so actually we’re now best of both worlds. We are –
I’ll come onto the sovereignty question, because it’s so important.
You know, we’re going to be in the single market, in the political
cooperation to keep our world and our people safe, but out of the
projects that we don’t like. Out of the euro, out of the no borders
agreement. Now, on sovereignty, yes of course if Britain were to
leave the EU that might give you a feeling of sovereignty, but
you’ve got to ask yourself is it real? Would you have the power to
help businesses and make sure they weren’t discriminated against
in Europe? No, you wouldn’t. Would you have the power to insist
that European countries share with us their border information so
we know what terrorists and criminals are doing in Europe? No
you wouldn’t. Would you, if suddenly a ban was put on for some
bogus health reasons on one of our industries, would you be able
to insist that that ban was unpicked? No you wouldn’t. So you
have an illusion of sovereignty but you don’t have power. You
don’t have control. You can’t get things done. And to me this is in
a way quite simple. You boil it down to if you love this country –
and I love this country so much – you want what’s best for it. And
you want to make sure we are stronger, we’re safer, we’re better
off, we’re able to get things done in the world. That’s what this is
about. And that’s really the question we have to ask.
Well the difference is that of course now we’re not only out of
the euro, out of the no borders agreement, but we’re also out of
ever-closer union, so we won’t be part – yes.
Hold on. First of all, what was agreed by 28 prime ministers
and presidents of every EU country on Friday evening, that is in
itself an international law decision, a treaty that will be deposited
at the UN. And it cannot – it is legally binding, it is irreversible.
The only way it can be reversed is if all the 28 countries, including
me, were to turn round and say we don’t want this any more. So
that’s not going to happen.
It wasn’t. 23 – the Danish had a protocol to give them some
special status in the EU, 23 years on that special status continues.
So we have got not only – not only – it’s survived – not only have
28 countries made this legally binding decision but we also have
in two vital areas the commitment to treaty change. Treaty
change to carve Britain out of ever-closure union. So we’re in the
bits of Europe we want to be in but out of those we don’t want to
be in. And crucially, and this is a more technical issue, but there’s
a simplicity at its heart, treaty change to make sure that not only
can we keep our currency, the pound, forever, but also the pound
and our businesses cannot be discriminated against in Europe.
And I think this is a really important point, because to me the
weakness of the Leave campaign is that I think they forget that
even if you leave, the EU still exists. It’s still on your doorstep. 
and what I will have with deal is to make sure we can
never be discriminated against. Leave the EU and your businesses
can be discriminated against, your financial services can be
discriminated against and there’s not much you can do about that.
Well first of all on this sovereignty issue I mean we
should stand back for a moment and recognise this referendum,
this is an enormous act of British sovereignty. This is Britain and
British people saying let’s make a choice here. Second point I’d
make is, look, sovereignty really means are you able to get things
done? Are you able to change things? To fix things? And as I say
you might feel more…
…sovereign, but if you can’t get your businesses access
to European markets, if you can’t keep your people safe, if you
can’t insist on the passenger information, the terrorist information
that we need then you are not actually more in charge of your
destiny. You’re less in charge of your destiny. And there is of
course this crucial point, that if you leave the EU and then want 
full access, unimpeded access to that single market the other
countries have got that and had to sign up to all the rules of the
EU without having say. So take one…
Yes. We’re going to set out in the coming days
proposals, as I’ve announced I think before on this programme, to
make clear that you know the British parliament is sovereign, we
have chosen to join the EU, would could choose to leave the EU
and I think there’s some important work to put that point ...
What you can do though is just put beyond doubt in
people’s minds ‘cause sometimes this is questioned.
No, I think it’s not. I think for a lot of people it’s
important. As I say this is an act of sovereignty holding a
referendum and I think it’s important for people to know that in
the end what our parliament does, our parliament can undo. It is
a sovereign parliament. Look, I approach all these issues in a very
simple way. I am passionate and love the institutions and the
Constitution we have in our country. I do not love the institutions
of Brussels, but I make a clear eyed determination of what will
make Britain stronger, what will make us safer, what will enable
us to protect our people in this world and it’s to get the best of
both worlds in this amended EU.
Well there is this argument which our proposals will
address, that countries that have written constitutions have
sometimes been able not only to assert the sovereignty of their
own parliament, as we’ve just discussed, but actually to go further
and say that those constitutional principles have to be taken into
account. But we’ll be making this clear Andrew. You’re trying to
get me to pre-empt on your programme. You’re going to have to
wait.
I’m not making that argument. I think we shouldn’t
have to do that in order to give to ourselves what some other
countries have managed in ..
No that’s – I don’t think that’s necessary. We’ll have to
wait for the detailed proposals, but I think they’re important.
Well we had a very good, very civilised, very dignified
Cabinet meeting in which the 29 people who sit round the table,
23 absolutely believe that this – actually everyone agreed that the
deal made in Brussels was a good deal. Everyone agreed on the
referendum, the 23 of 29 agreed that Britain is better off in a
reformed European Union. But of course people like Michael and
Iain Duncan Smith you know all their political lives have believed,
particularly Michael, that Britain would be better off outside the
EU, so that’s why we have this position in place, that people can
campaign in a personal capacity. Obviously you know I’m sad
that a close friend is going to be on the different side of this
argument, but you know we respect each other’s positions and
we’ll you know make the case accordingly. As for Boris I’d say to
Boris
I would say to Boris what I say to everybody else which
is that we will be safer, we’ll be stronger, we’ll be better off inside
the EU. I think the prospect of you know linking arms with Nigel
Farage and George Galloway and taking a leap into the dark is the
wrong step for our country and if Boris and if others really care
about being able to get things done in our world then the EU is
one of the ways in which we get them done. We’re members of
NATO, we’re members of the UN, we’re members of the IMF. I
care about Britain being able to fix stuff. Now whether it’s
stopping pirates off the African coast, whether it’s closing down
illegal migration routes and closing down smugglers, whether it’s
standing up to Vladimir Putin with sanctions, whether it’s the
sanctions we put in place to get Iran to abandon its nuclear
programme, having that seat at the table in the EU just as being a
member of NATO is a vital way that we project our values and our
power and our influence in the world. And I don’t say this for any
exercise of national vanity, this is about our national interests.
That you know Britain, this amazing country, 5th largest economy
in the world, we can succeed whatever we do. But if you ask me
having sat here as prime minister for six years how we’d be safer,
stronger, better off, in or out I’m absolutely clear we’ll be better
off in and I’m going to take that message round the country for
the next four months. If the British people make a contrary
decision I will do everything in my power to implement it as best I
can. But I’m absolutely clear that after the years that I’ve spent in
this job that this is the right thing for Britain to do.
No, not at all actually. The Cabinet meeting yesterday
was - was I say very dignified and everybody said first of all they
back the referendum, they back the date. Everyone also said they
thought the deal improved on the status quo. Because it’s
undeniable we’re going to be able to stop people’s welfare
benefits. It’s undeniable that we’re out of ever closer union. One
of the – this crucial point of making sure not just we keep our
currency but British firms can never be discriminated against while
there is this parallel currency, the Euro, these are really
important for the future of our country. But of course, you know,
in the Conservative Party, as in the Labour Party and you heard it
with Kate Hoey you have some people who’ve always believed
Britain’s better off out. I think it is a risk, I think it’s uncertainty, I
think it’s a leap in the dark and I think it would actually weaken
our ability to get things done. Our sovereignty as it were rather
than strengthen it.
Well I think it would lose, obviously, one of its strongest
players. One of its – it would lose the country that argues the
most for free trade deals. That argues the most for a competitive
single market.
But you know, it wouldn’t go away. I think this in a way
is one of the weaknesses of the case for leaving, is this idea – as
Patrick McLoughlin put it brilliantly at Cabinet yesterday, he said in
a way perhaps only he could look, I’d love to live in utopia too but
I’ve got a feeling when we get to utopia we’ll find the EU will still
be there. And that’s the point. Cos in the end this is a hard
headed calculation about what’s best for Britain, for British
people. How do we create jobs, how do we safeguard livelihoods,
how do we fight terrorism. How do we make sure in a very
dangerous world we’re strong in the west and we have strength in
numbers in a world where you’ve got Putin to the east and ISIL
Daesh to the south, how do you stay strong? You stay strong by
sticking with your neighbouring countries, your partners and your
friends. Yes, this organisation is imperfect, has it got better? Yes.
Is there still a lot more to do to improve it? Absolutely and the
case for reform doesn’t end, but if you leave the EU, the EU will
stop reforming, in my view it would probably get worse and that
actually would impact us very badly, because if we’re outside the
EU, the euro goes on as a currency, the migration crisis goes on.
Well I stood and the whole Conservative Party stood on
a very clear manifesto of a promise I made three years ago that
we would have a renegotiation and hold a referendum and we are
meeting those commitments. The renegotiation is now complete,
after exhaustive work, travelling right across Europe, meeting
every single prime minister and president, getting a better deal
for Britain and now we meet the commitment to hold this
referendum. And the people are sovereign. We talked about
sovereignty, well the people of our country are going to make a
sovereign decision. They’re going to instruct their prime minister
either to stay in a reformed European union, and fight for Britain’s
interests in that way, or to leave. And I will you know, meet their
instruction and answer their instruction whatever it is. That’s my
job.
Not at all. I think you know you’ve got the
overwhelming majority of the Cabinet backing that we’re better
off to remain in a reformed European union. You’re going to see –
you know I’m sure somebody will try and paint it as the
establishment against you know the sort of rebel alliance. Well
you don’t get much more establishment than the Lord Chancellor
and the Leader of the House of Commons and frankly I’ve got
many things to say about Jeremy Corbyn but I don’t think I’d
describe him as a member of the establishment. I mean on my
side of the argument there will be you know the Green party, the
Liberal Democrats, most of the Labour party, trade unionists who
not always do I have a huge amount of agreement.
Yeah because – yes because in the end this question is
so much bigger than any political party or any politician. It’s about
the future of our country for our children and our grandchildren.
What sort of country do we want to live in? I would say let us
have a big bold Britain. Doing great things in the world in these
organisations making us stronger, more prosperous and safer.