
UNCLASSIFIED 
OPEN SOURCE INTELLIGENCE (OSINT)
Speeches and Facebook Posts – Ahsan Iqbal, Pakistan
January 10, 2014
Dear Dignitaries, Ladies, and Gentlemen,
I am grateful to be here at the 2nd Pakistan Urban Forum with the theme, ” Management Urbanization: The road to national development”. Karachi holds special place for me as I grew up in Karachi and completed schooling here. It is city of my childhood dreams and wish to see it back as a city of lights and peace.
Urbanization is a transformative process. As countries urbanize, they advance, develop and become richer ‐ in simultaneously as we observe in some cases; but equally we have witnessed the perverse outcome of chaotic urbanization resulting in slum formation, the physical manifestation of urban poverty. As urbanization is predominantly propelled by the search for opportunities to realize the human potential, the search for prosperity is thus one of the main drivers behind the existence of cities. Prosperity is the essence of progress and the way development positively materializes. Prosperity is the desired future for our cities, our equitable, diverse and inclusive cities.
As with all its challenges, however, Pakistan must take ultimate ownership over urbanization. The new paradigm for economic growth, and urbanization should be a major focus.
The government of Pakistan is working on a competitive vision of foreseeing the nation as effectively supporting our quality of life, growth aspirations and the integrity of our environment. Ultimately this contributes towards Pakistan’s global competitiveness. For this the government is trying to make effective use of resource management towards meeting its national goals and supporting our future needs.
The reform program of the Planning Commission of Pakistan is versatile. This focuses mainly on improving the planning system for Pakistan’s urban areas and infrastructure. This concept note looks towards:
1. Improve our knowledge and understanding of the issues facing planning, urban design and infrastructure development in Pakistan.
2. Identification and addressing the right issues.
3. Making right decisions to incorporate different options for reform.
4. Develop Urban Policy Center at the Planning Commission of Pakistan.
Urbanization issues in Pakistan:
Pakistan has experienced a large increase in population over the past five decades. The average population growth rate is around 3.5% per year for urban areas. Pakistan is fastest urbanising country in South Asia. We have 9 cities with population of over one million, 75 cities with population of over 100,000. Nearly 15 cities have population of over half million. From 2005 onwards, the urban population in Pakistan is expected to increase exponentially. By the year 2030, the urban population will become 50% of the total population of 260 million. Over the next 25 years, Pakistan is expected to add another 80 million inhabitants to its urban centers.
I hope that the conference will help us address some of the following challenges we are facing in urban management of our cities;
1. Lack of understanding and capacity to manage urbanization, particularly lack of data for evidence based policies.
2. Dumps of wastes scattered all over the cities, poor solid waste management and dangers from hazardous waste.
3. Breakdown of public health systems, Open sewers carrying humans and other wastes (Sanitation),
4. Poor supply of potable and clean water,
5. Haphazard development patterns that produce chronic traffic congestion and noise,
6. Lack of public spaces, parks, youth facilities
7. Persistent and growing urban poverty.
8. Automobile dependent cities with congestion and pollution.
9. Settlements due to low consideration towards relocation of low income communities (Slums in urban cities with sub human living conditions)
10. PoorBye laws and zoning regulations,
11. Poorly designed civic architecture and services particularly education and healthcare
12. Poor urban services and infrastructure resulting in environment and health hazards as well as disrupting economic activity, no preparedness for climate change
13. Poor governance, lack of capacity and professionalization in local governments and services, Absence of an effective regulatory framework,
14. Low density, anti-pedestrian, anti street and anti mixed land use development,
15. Housing development for elite, poor and low income group have been neglected, challenges of social inclusiveness
16. Absence of poorly planned and appropriately located transport and cargo terminals, whole sale markets, ware houses and storage areas.
17. Lack of infrastructure for building smart and creative cities
18. Improving law n order through urban smart policing
19. Loss of heritage,  cities character and identity in haphazard growth
 
Ladies and Gentlemen!
Globalization and global economic development have set competition between the nations and states and also amongst the cities. This idea of competition is new and it is different from the marketing of the products and services operating at global level between different cities. The cities are indeed marketing themselves as more competitive places for investment flows by presenting their strengths to the global investors. This brings opportunity of branding a city as an investment destination. Moreover it creates the image of a city. The branding of a city alone may not solve the problem but in affiliation and strong support of the local city administrative authorities and departments and communities working with the investors to improve infrastructure and quality of life on one hand and brand marketing on the other hand can lead to success of this concept of branding of a city.
The competition between cities at national level needs to be promoted. It can be in the form of performance score card depending upon the cities performance in different sectors. This will provide the residents of the city to compete with other cities and will enhance the capabilities of individuals in the form of results. A country’s international competitiveness is directly associated with more competitiveness of its major cities. Cities should moreover concentrate on the economic activity by bringing together different sectors and businesses which includes head offices along with the universities and research institutions that support innovation, growth, capacity building and skill sets.
An efficient, effective and integrated planning system is needed to ensure that our cities, region and infrastructure are suitable for today and the future.
Infrastructure development is the fundamental necessity of the current time, the infrastructure which in the right place, at the right time, is needed to support our cities and economy. This allows the cities to perform well and for this a “National Infrastructure Plan” in being developed under Pakistan Vision 2025 which will support our productivity and will enhance economic competitiveness. This would be an enabler of economic and social development and will encourage commercial and industrial activities. The government is actively pursuing Karachi Circular Railway project with Government of Japan and we expect to see breakthrough in 2014 as Japanese government has expressed confidence in the direction and management of economy by PM Sharif’s government. Likewise, Karachi Lahore Motorway project will be another landmark project completed during the tenure of this government to link Karachi with upcountry and create a trade corridor from Peshawar to Karachi. Government has assigned highest priority to fixing energy crisis which suffers not just from supplies but also fatigued transmission and distribution infrastructure. Work on Thar coal project, Gadani Power Park coal based projects, and  Dassu and Diamer Bhasha Dam hydel projects has been initiated.
Our Infrastructure development strategy envisages to spur growth by:
• Building physical connections through transport connections and telecommunications
• It will link the rural areas to urban areas and through this to the world markets
• Imports and exports will rise and the goods in international market will give business opportunity to people to travel domestic and international
• It will provide business exposure to people and to develop strong supply chains
• The people and goods travel will require to use railways, highways, airports and ports
• It will enhance the social services, recreational and tourism opportunities
• It will support links to sectors such as education, healthcare, and community services.
The focus for the planning commission is on making an effective planning framework for Pakistan’s urban areas in partnership with the provinces and in particular Islamabad, as being the capital. The high quality infrastructure in cities has to be ensured, so that the urban areas are delivered in the right time and right place, without compromising environmental reliability.
Urban planning can contribute to enhance the prosperity of cities in several different ways and is possible together with related institutions and legislation. The potential of urbanization is now widely recognized but still it is a long way from being fully controlled by some urban planners and decision makers.
The traditional urban planning has resulted in the reduction of size of public areas and has increased the slum formation as well as the failure of urban transport and urban mobility features. The use of private vehicles has been increased in a large number which results in traffic congestion. This is the high time to design integrated transport systems within the cities and connecting to other cities. Public transportation systems need to be addressed on a high priority bases which include city buses, taxis, autos and other modes of communication.
More public spaces have to be created and promote sports, cycling and walking. The business and commercial areas need to be regulated with respect to transportation. The use of private vehicles within the business and commercial areas should be discouraged and restricted. This can be tackled by introducing the ticketing system and charged within the confined boundaries in the public areas. This will promote pedestrian walks and cycling. The people should be encouraged to use public transport and before this good means of transport within the cities should be introduced. The BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) system initiated by the Government of Punjab in Lahore is a successful transport delivery model and can be set as an example for other big cities to introduce this system in their planning.
The modular construction (off-site manufacturing) is the state of the art, high quality, sustainable, innovative, efficient, cost effective and takes shorter time to complete and is more reliable construction technology. Modular construction is a process that constructs a building components and materials designed to the same codes and standards as traditionally built facilities. This takes almost half time than the conventional buildings construction. It consists of more added aesthetic value to the design of the building and reduced construction costs. This makes construction process faster and efficient.
This will give rise to more industries and productivity. Manufacturing building components off-site provides for more controlled conditions and allows for improved quality and precision in the fabrication of the components with less generation of wastes. The way in which Pakistan builds has to be changed, GREENER, FASTER AND SMARTER [GFS] approach to construction should be realized and given priority.
This type of Modular Construction is innovative and is applicable to prefabricate single or multi-story whole building and by adopting lean manufacturing system and off-site construction sustainable construction can be achieved. The objective is to exhibit how a new paradigm for the conceptualization and construction of buildings can be conceived of as entirely factory based process that creates advantages for construction through industrial systems technology transfer. The key issue for the housing industry and construction companies is the communication impediments and slow adoption of new housing technologies.
The Urban Policy Center is being established at the Planning Commission of Pakistan. This will include the formation of “Urban Think Tanks” which will include people from Private sector, Public sector and Stake holders and Academia. This will provide research base debates on the issues and realistic approach towards resolving these issues.
The government believes Pakistan’s future depends on reviving the economy and promoting sustainable and inclusive growth. It is working on Pakistan Vision 2025 which will provide direction and set priorities for future. It is based on seven pillars namely, integrated energy and security; self reliant growth through resource mobilisation, science, technology and innovation, and exports; value addition in production; building human and social capital; SME and private sector led growth; modern infrastructure for regional connectivity; and governance reforms for a modern, responsive, and efficient public sector with quality in service delivery.
Our approach to realise goals is collaborative partnership between public sector, private sector, and academia and civil society. The government can’t attract talent due to low pay scales. The talent is in private sector and academia. It is time to forge a development partnership for translating dreams into ideas, ideas into action, action into development. We have ignored people in development in the past and failed to translate growth into development. Development has to be of people, by people, and for people.
I invite the experts and professionals to join us in shaping and implementing Pakistan Vision 2025 by contributing their ideas for urban development and become partners in implementation to turn our plans into a reality for making Pakistan one of the fastest growing economies in Asia.
 Pakistan Zindabad!
Facebook 13 June 2016
Chaired a high level meeting to review preparedness for monsoon season after Met Department forecast of 20 percent higher rainfall during this year between June-September.
Facebook 12 June 2016
Narowal Railway Station building which became dangerous is undergoing reconstruction and will be a model railway station complex with civic facilities for the citizens
Facebook 12 June 2016
Inspected Ramazan Bazar and was pleased to know from people that prices were lower than market.
Regular inspection of projects helps speed up work.
During visit of the constituency, checked progress of under construction UET campus, Narowal project.
Attended Iftar reception hosted by Mr Akram Sh, Advocate to mark beginning of Ramadan.
Alhamdulillah By the Grace of Almighty inaugurated Sout ul Quran Channel in Faisalabad, which is already working in Islamabad, Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar, Quetta and will be extended to other cities. This channel broadcasts Quran's recitation and translation so that people may understand directly true message of Islam based on compassion, knowledge, peace and harmony.
Facebook June 7 2016
"We are poised for economic take off after achieving stabilisation of economy. Improving energy situation, incentives for agriculture and exports in the budget and CPEC projects' investments offer great potential for growth. We need to be bullish on Pakistan's future and reject the voices of negativity. A handful of anchors want to make people believe everything is gloomy while the entire world is full of praise for Pakistan's remarkable economic recovery. Time for every Pakistani to be Brand Ambassador of Pakistan to attract more investments and promote exports. This is age of economic ideologies and competitiveness, which requires continuous improvement in productivity, quality and innovation. Government is willing to provide technical support to Chambers of Commerce & Industry to provide technical support for upgrading private sector particularly SME sector management capacity. We have $150b export target by 2025 as a national goal for which we need close collaboration of government, industry and academia." Addressed Faisalabad Chamber of Commerce & Industry. Was pleased to note that FCCI members fully endorsed the budget as pro agriculture and pro exports. Also inaugurated Research Unit set up by Ch Nawaz, President FCCI for members in Chamber head office.
Facebook June 6, 2016
Addressed oath taking ceremony of YDC in University of Agriculture Faisalabad and performed foundation stone ceremony for new Library Building, Girls Hostel and IT Centre. Urged upon faculty and students to produce practical research for introducing high yield varieties for boosting agriculture productivity in the country.
Mr Naveed Qazi, Country Director CISCO along with his team visited Narowal on my invitation to set up CISCO Networking Academy, which will provide students of University of Gujrat, Narowal Campus opportunities of learning skills relevant to market place.
Distributed prizes among position holders of CM Punjab's Qirat, Naat, Speeches and essay writing competition in Narowal District. such competitions help in promoting co-curricular activities among students, which are critical for healthy development of our youth.
Dancing Horses is a folk tradition in rural Punjab. An yearly competition is organized in village Kotli Natho Malhi of my constituency in which horses from many districts participate. These horses presented thrilling performances and captivated thousands of villagers.
May Allah Bless soul of Mohammad Ali, greatest boxer of all times. Ameen! Watching his fights is among some of the most cherished childhood memories. He was a class in himself, champion of boxing and civil rights, and his footprints will never erase from annals of sports.
Facebook 2 June 2016
Chaired high level CPEC projects fortnightly review meeting, pleased to see projects moving forward on fast pace, directed to complete LTP at earliest.
Press Release 
ISLAMABAD: Federal Minister for Planning, Development & Reform Ahsan Iqbal said CPEC is a national agenda and has been put into implementation in record time due to total commitment of both Pakistani and Chinese leadership. He expressed satisfaction over progress of CPEC projects and directed for finalization of Long Term Plan (LTP) of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) at the earliest in consultation with the provinces. Federal ministries and provinces should come up with their next agenda of projects for the long term plan of CPEC in next fifteen days. Federal Minister Planning & Development Ahsan Iqbal issued these directions while chairing high level fortnightly review meeting of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) at Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform. He also directed ministries to submit the anticipated future disbursement plan of CPEC projects included in PSDP of next financial year to ensure smooth releases for projects. While reviewing the energy project in CPEC, Ahsan Iqbal asked Ministry of Water & Power to present an integrated plan for generation, transmission and distribution for next three year within one week to ensure that new power will be distributed to consumers in a planned manner. He said fast track work on these projects is necessary to tackle the energy crisis and power needs of industrial zones in future under CPEC. He said that with the completion of the energy projects in early harvest projects, 10,000 MGW would be added in national grid by 2018. Meeting was appraised that work on Bin Qasim Power Plant, Thar Power Plant and Sahiwal Power Plant is on track and these would be completed as per the schedule. While reviewing the Gwadar component of CPEC, Ahsan Iqbal directed the concerned authorities to consider urban planning requirements while devising Master Plan for Gwadar and also called for enforcing the land zoning laws to check the mushroom growth of housing societies in the port city. He also directed to finalize the plan to switch Gwadar Power Plant from coal to LNG/oil on urgent basis to meet the urgent energy needs of the port city and directed to carry out the work on Gwadar International Airport and Gwadar Sea Port projects on fast track basis. Minister urged to develop Thar as Model City. The economic activity in Thar should not be geared to earn the profits only but should also focus on economic and social uplift of the area. We should not repeat the mistake made in Sui. Meeting reviewed the progress on projects in energy, road infrastructure, railway and Gwadar under CPEC framework. Minister Planning and Development directed to keep momentum in the construction work on CPEC projects to ensure their completion in stipulated time frame. Minister emphasized that smarter and scientific approach should be adopted while carrying out the work on CPEC projects and urged for mobilizing the required financial resources promptly for smooth execution of work on these projects. Meeting also reviewed KKH-II (Thakot-Havalaian section) and Multan-Sukhur Section of Karachi-Peshawar Motorway, Matiari-Lahore Transmission Line, ML-1 Railway Track, etc. and expressed satisfaction over progress on CPEC projects.
Narowal Railway Station building which became dangerous is undergoing reconstruction and will be a model railway station complex with civic facilities for the citizens.
Met Mr Marc Andre Franche, Country Director, UNDP and discussed government's SDG implementation framework. Government is taken lead in the world to localize SDGs. Planning Commission and UNDP are working together in many development fields.
Excellency Takashi Kurai, Ambassador of Japan to Pakistan called. We discussed Pakistan- Japan economic cooperation. Urged early start of work on Karachi Circular Road ( KCR).
With Governor Balochistan, Mahmood Khan Achakzai, MNA and Senator Usman Kakar after President's address to the Parliament in Speaker's Lounge.
Presented PSDP sized Rs 800 billion 2016-17 for approval to National Economic Council presided by the Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. National Development outlay will be Rs 1675 including Rs 875 billion of provinces. Major thrust of development budget will be implementation of CPEC projects. For third year in row Higher Education Commission (HEC) gets highest budget Rs 21 billion. Many new initiatives launched. I am humbled by PM's kind words for me and my team. We wish him a successful surgery and pray for his earliest return with complete recovery Ameen!
Delivered keynote speech in Seminar organized by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting on 65th anniversary of Pak- China diplomatic relations
Today we celebrate 65th anniversary of Pak- China diplomatic relations. Pak-china iron brotherhood has touched new heights with CPEC. Our partnership has moved from geo-strategic to geo-economic orbit. Long Live Pak China friendship.
"Pakistan is poised for an economic take off. More than 10,000 mw energy will be added by 2018, new transport infrastructure projects will transform economy, investment in higher education will prepare our youth for meeting challenges of knowledge economy. Pakistan Vision 2025 recognizes Internet and digital economy as major driver of growth. Pakistan has emerged as 4th biggest e-lancing country due to enterprise of our youth. In the past, political instability, poor economic policies, lack of investment in requisite infrastructure and disjointed governance cost us dearly. We will not let anyone derail Pakistan from the path of development. Pakistan is the next emerging success story." Addressed "Building for Tomorrow" Conference organised by General Electric International, in Islamabad.

PMLN wins PK 8 election in Peshawar. The voice of people is clear and loud, they trust PMLN and Nawaz Sharif. KP supports CPEC. Well done KP. We will not let you down! IA. However, what is astonishing that PTI drops to no 4 after three years of New Pakistan in KP.
Ambassador of South Korea H.E Jong Hwan Song's farewell visit. A great friend of Pakistan. Together we started several initiatives to promote cooperation between our countries. Urged him to support Gandhara University project, at Taxila.
Here are a few excerpts from Business Confidence Index Survey conducted recently by Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry. A visible positive change from 2013 is so clear. Let's be positive about our country which is emerging as one of top eight fastest growing economies in the world and acknowledge growing confidence of investors due to economic reforms, better security and improved governance. What outside world is recognising we need to say louder because Pakistan in ours. Let's think positive and act positive for more and bigger success. Pakistan is Rising!!! Alhamdulillah
Very proud of final year B.Sc Mech Engg students of #‎UETNarowal who have developed electric bike as project.
Wondering what was IK's logic of opposing such an outstanding Pakistani origin London Mayor candidate? Was it relation over merit? Or Was it money over humbleness?
Facebook April 2016
Landed from Beijing and proceeded straight from airport to Narowal for attending Prize Distribution Ceremony of Narowal Commerce College. I was delighted to hear from an M.Com student that he had moved to Lahore for better quality of studies but after trying couple of Commerce Colleges decided to come back to Narowal Commerce College, which was better. Urged the students to work hard and believe in power of positive. Pakistan is growing and improving. Some politicians fear success of PMLN policies and want to scare investors from Pakistan because they think that they will be eliminated in 2018 elections. We must preserve political stability in order to harness benefits of CPEC. Nation isn't interested in disruptions and negative politics. Our goal is to make Pakistan self sufficient in energy by 2018. Inspected the under construction new block for post graduate classes.
"China and Pakistan believe in a vision for regional connectivity and a shared destiny. CPEC will take our friendship to new heights. Thousands of Pakistani students studying in China will form new bridge of friendship. Thousands of jobs have been created with start of CPEC projects in Pakistan. All regions will equally benefit as economic zones will be set up in all provinces." Gave an interview to Chinese TV in Beijing.
Signed contract for Pakistan's Remote Sensing Satellite Project to be commissioned in 2018. This project will take Pakistan China friendship from the heights of Himalayas to stars. The government is making Pakistan self reliant in space technology as its importance grows in development field. Proposed to Chinese Space Agency to fly one Pakistani astronaut along with Chinese astronauts in a Chinese manned spaceship in 2017.
Facebook April 18, 2016
Inaugurated Govt Ghulam Fatima Girls High School in Narowal for which 4 acres of land was donated by Mr. Irfan Mahmood and his sisters, my cousins. Encouraged students to pursue education up to university level after opening of a university campus in Narowal. 

Received Ms. Evan Ryan, Assistant Secretary of State, USA in Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform and had very positive discussion on collaboration opportunities between Pakistan and USA to realize the goals of Pak-USA Knowledge Corridor.
We are working and discussing with US universities and the administration ways and means of partnership through which we can leverage our own resources and maximize the value to have our goal of 10,000 Ph.Ds get trained in US universities in the next 10 years
Tweet 13 June 2016
Chaired a high level meeting to review preparedness for monsoon season after Met Department forecast of 20.
Narowal Railway Station building which became dangerous is undergoing reconstruction and will be a model railway...
Inspected Ramazan Bazar and was pleased to know from people that prices were lower than market.
Attended Iftar reception hosted by Mr Akram Sh, Advocate to mark beginning of Ramadan.
If these cynics abroad have that much pain they should sacrifice n come back to Pakistan 2 serve like I did 30yrs ago or stop spreading gloom
What amuses tht big cynics on Pakistan r ones who chose 2 enjoy luxuries of US & Europe 4 themselves but 4 their country have nothing +ive
We aim to establish #university in every district across the #country
Alhamdulillah By the Grace of Almighty inaugurated Sout ul Quran Channel in Faisalabad, which is already working.
We are poised for economic take off after achieving stabilisation of economy. Improving energy situation
Many analysts making comments on budget not even aware tht after 18 amendment education, health, & sports are devolved subjects to provinces
May Allah Bless soul of Mohammad Ali, greatest boxer of all times. Ameen! Watching his fights is among some of
Rs 5.4b allocated for evacuation of power from Port Qasim 1320mw power project to be commissioned next year under CPEC
Speech quote 06/16/2016
“The responsibility of all terrorist attacks falls squarely on the armed forces & intelligence agencies. People of Pakistan have made enough sacrifices. It is time that that these institutions start doing their job of protecting Pakistan & not themselves. There would no war, no Taliban, no external threat if they would have done their job. It is high time to not only hit back at terrorists but to secure Pakistan’s future by dealing with this menace. Spend on education, health, development, people & …. the army!”
"instead of the U.N., it would have been better if the inquiry had been done by a national institution. Now that we have an independent judiciary, that would have been possible. Or, if the government feared the matter getting politicized, it could have been held by a bipartisan parliamentary committee.
Dec 11, 2011
http://wmot.org/post/absent-president-ignites-rumors-pakistan#stream/0
It will be a new beginning for People's Party because the past three and a half years have been dominated by his presidency and by his leadership of the party, which has come under a lot of criticism.
http://www.labnol.org/internet/transcribe-video-to-text/28914/

