With summer nearing, my thoughts turn to the Clam Bar on Montauk Highway, between Montauk and Amagansett on Long Island. It’s a popular summer spot. The outdoor atmosphere is casual, and the fried clams are delicious.

But the item on the menu that will keep me coming back again and again is a note: “It is a condition of service that children remain seated throughout their stay.”

Now, I might seem like an unlikely candidate to take up the fight for quietly seated children, what with my brood of three — ages 6, 3 and 5 months old. But it is a cause I champion fiercely.

My husband and I enjoy going out to eat, and we don’t want our kids or yours ruining it for us — or for others.

Oh, but they’re only children, I hear you protest. How do you expect them to stay in their seats and talk in a low volume for the length of a restaurant meal?

OK, it’s true: Children don’t have a lot of self-control. Yet my expectations for their behavior in restaurants remain high.

Going out to dinner or brunch is an experience. It’s not just about eating; if it were, you’d get take-out or order in. (And in fact, if you won’t control your children, that’s exactly what you should do.)

I admit it: I have certain (modest) requirements for my dining-out experience. And I know other diners do, too. That’s why there’s no crying allowed, no screaming or loud talking, no walking around, no turning around in their seats to look at other patrons.

Any behavior that would be unacceptable from a grown-up is unacceptable from my children. My kids are not perfect, believe me, but in a restaurant I insist they try to come close.

I don’t treat all public settings the same. If my baby cries on an airplane, I feel just as sorry for you as I do for myself. But don’t look to me for those goodie bags parents with babies have started passing out in the past few years. Airplanes, after all, aren’t exactly quiet spaces, and while I will try to quiet him to the best of my ability, my options are limited.

On the other hand, if my baby cries in a restaurant, I will immediately remove him until he stops. If he doesn’t stop, I will take him outside while my husband and other kids finish their meals and pay the check.

Before we had as many kids, if our daughter acted up, one of us would immediately take her outside while the other settled the bill — even if we were mid-meal. We once abandoned an amazing meal halfway through in Siena, Italy, because our daughter, then 18 months old and usually stellar in restaurants, started bawling.

Here’s our logic: We take our kids out with us as a matter of course, so we are responsible for their behavior and how it affects others.

We could choose to cut out restaurant meals, as some friends of ours have, but that wouldn’t fit with our lifestyle. So instead, we exercise discipline. When people ask if a restaurant is kid-friendly, I say that it depends on the kids — and, more importantly, on their parents.

It helps that we live in Brooklyn, where so many places try to be extra kid-friendly, and our kids are predictably excited when we patronize these places. There’s Henri on Fifth Avenue, which features board games. Brooklyn Burgers & Beer a few doors away always has paper and crayons ready to go.

Stone Park makes Mickey pancakes for brunch. And then there’s our personal favorite, Brooklyn Crab in Red Hook, a magical place that allows parents to sit around drinking beers, slurping oysters and shucking blue crabs while the kids play in the sandbox or miniature golf nearby.

OK, at Giussepina’s and Lucali’s, two pizza places with exposed pizza ovens, we bend the no-getting-up rule and, for one time during the meal, allow the kids to briefly watch their pizza being made. We’re not monsters, after all, and we do remember what it’s like to be a kid having to sit still.

But we also remember what it’s like to be a person without children just trying to enjoy a meal out. We’d never let our kids get in the way of that. Neither should anyone else.

Recently, Donald Trump-campaign surrogate Ben Carson was on CNN answering questions about Trump’s embattled campaign manager Corey Lewandowski. When the host asked whether Carson thought Lewandowski should continue on the campaign after being charged with battery in Florida, Carson came back with “everyone has been charged with something, I’m sure you’ve been charged with a misdemeanor or something.”

The interviewers looked at each other, stunned, before host John Berman interjected, “I actually haven’t.”

Clumsy, sure. But I wasn’t laughing. Like an ever-growing number of Americans, the widening net of the American justice system hits too close to home.

In February 2012, someone I consider one of my best friends, I’ll call him M, was arrested with over 30 others in a high-profile insurance-fraud bust. He had run a medical office, in Brooklyn, and the feds said that the patients at the office were receiving treatment for ailments they didn’t have.

M maintained his innocence and went to trial, a rarity in federal cases like his. M’s first trial ended in a hung jury, but he was found guilty in his second trial and is awaiting sentencing at Metropolitan Correction Center, where he’s allowed to have visitors for one hour, one time a week. He has two kids under 10 years old. He’s been there since November and is due to be sentenced in June.

Seven months in a holding pattern like this, with such a limited visitation schedule, is unreasonable. More unreasonable: He could face up to 200 years in prison, though he’ll probably get more like 20. For a nonviolent crime.

He’s not my first friend to go to prison. In my teens and early 20s in Brooklyn, it was all too common for young men to go to jail. The charges were most often related to selling marijuana or stock fraud. A year or two was a standard term. When I was 16, I sat in a courtroom as an 18-year-old friend was ordered held on $3,000 bail, an astronomical amount to his family that they simply couldn’t pay.

In the last 40 years, America’s prison population has spiked. One in 31 Americans is either in jail or on probation or parole. According to a special report by the Bureau of Justice in 2014, which tracked the release of over 400,000 prisoners in 30 states, over 75 percent were arrested again within five years of getting out.

It’s easy to shrug our shoulders at these numbers and say, “Once a criminal, always a criminal,” but as the prisoner count continues to spiral ever upward, it becomes more likely that someone you care about will become ensnared in the broken system.

And that’s no surprise. Our criminal code has gotten much too complicated. In 2009, Harvey Silverglate published the seminal book on the consequences of our over-criminalizing legal culture, suggesting Americans unknowingly commit three felonies a day.

Along with a prison population that has become obscenely large, sentences for many crimes are far too long. It would be one thing if the length of a potential sentence would act as a deterrent to criminals, but many studies, including one report from the National Research Council in 2014, suggest it doesn’t.

Instead, long prison sentences make it less possible that someone gets out of prison and goes on to live a normal life.

There was a brief moment during peak popularity of the Netflix show “Making a Murderer” and the Serial podcast last year where it seemed Americans would take up the cause of justice reform en masse. That hasn’t happened. Momentum seems to have fizzled — and honestly, it’s not surprising if it takes a TV show to drum up that momentum in the first place.

Of course, not every victim of our prison system is sympathetic or innocent. And while the argument that mass incarceration have led to a safer country can’t be discounted, we also shouldn’t discount the societal price, especially the breakdown of families across so many communities. We can change the criminal justice system now or we can wait until even more people are crushed by it. But change it we must.

My kids and I were singing along, loudly, to “Run the World (Girls)” by Beyonce, as you do, when my 3-year-old son asked, “Can we listen to ‘Run the World (Boys)’ next?”
“That’s not a real song,” my 6-year-old daughter jumped in.
“Why not?”
I didn’t give them the obvious answer: There’s no song about boys running the world because boys actually run the world. Or mostly, anyway. I’m afraid they’ll ask me: Then why are we pretending girls do?
Just like we over-reassure our dateless friends that they’re totally, totally awesome, we oversell the “rah-rah, girl power!” to our girls but don’t entirely mean it. We’re overemphasizing how simply amazing and capable girls are by virtue of their gender and not much else. Isn’t that the opposite of what we should be doing?
Hollywood, of course, loves this pitch to girls. Ellen DeGeneres has a new lifestyle brand called ED that is meant to, what else, “empower” girls.
DeGeneres collaborated on a clothing line for The Gap and produced shirts for girls that had words like “Genius” and “Gifted” printed across them. I’m concerned that my daughter will feel we “doth protest too much” and ask, “Why am I wearing a shirt that says I’m a genius? Is it because I’m actually not?” “Why do you keep saying I rule? Is it because I don’t?” The result is more likely to be girls second-guessing themselves.
The language is the problem. Mainstream feminism tells girls they’re better than the boys but then has events like “Equal Pay Day” demanding equal pay. Demanding from whom? The men who dole out the pay? Weren’t girls just running the world? Which is it?
Writing in Mogul magazine last month, Chelsea Clinton claimed that “In 2016, it’s still true that in no country on Earth are women given equal rights and equal opportunities — to education, to health care, to equal pay for equal work — to men.” How can we tell girls that America doesn’t give them equal opportunities and at the same time tell them they should feel powerful? It doesn’t add up.
The way we talk to girls needs to change. We need to teach our daughters that if they feel they deserve higher pay, they need to ask for it. It sends mixed messages to tell girls they can do anything . . . provided boys help them.
And the idea that an American girl doesn’t have opportunities equal to American boys is foolish and can only discourage girls from even trying to succeed. Why bother if society is so stacked against her? Are girls unstoppable and amazing — or are they unlikely to succeed in our unfair world?
It’s especially jarring that we’ve decided boys don’t need the same encouragement girls get because, theoretically, they’ll be fine. Meanwhile, there’s a lot of data to suggest girls are doing far better than boys these days.
More women than men attend college, by a lopsided 60 percent to 40 percent, and the last recession hit men far harder than it did women.
It was nearly 15 years ago that Lesley Stahl reported for CBS News that boys were being left behind. She quoted Dr. Michael Thompson, author of a book about the academic problems of boys, “Raising Cain,” as saying: “After decades of special attention, girls are soaring, while boys are stagnating.”
That special attention has only increased since then. But no one seems to want to get into the business of turning things around for boys, or telling boys that they rule simply because they’re not girls. I guess “Boys rule!!” on a T-shirt just won’t sell.
Women have come a long way in just a few generations. If equality is the goal, why do we tell girls how perfect and special they are but don’t do the same for boys? And if pride and empowerment are the goals, why do we tell them they’re essentially helpless in modern society?
There’s a catchy commercial on the air right now, for the University of Phoenix, an online college. To the tune of “If I only had a brain” from the Wizard of Oz, images of hard-working people, nose in the book, work toward that online degree.
The lyrics insist “a degree is a degree” and “you’re gonna want someone like me” while adding “and I’ve also got a brain.”
Why having a brain means getting a degree from a questionable online college is unclear, but the idea that getting more schooling is always the best way to make more money has been ingrained in our national psyche for some time now, and the commercial plays right into that.
And it couldn’t be more wrong.
With the insane cost of college still climbing each year, it’s time to start telling our kids that it’s OK to skip the education factories that most colleges really are.
I’m not picking on the University of Phoenix here, or other online or “for profit” schools. The great majority of colleges don’t make financial sense for their students anymore.
According to a Pew study, in 1973, 24 percent of young adults aged 18-24 were enrolled in college. By 2009, that number had ballooned to nearly 40 percent.
More kids going to college sounds like it should be a good thing, but it’s not. Graduates’ student debt is astronomical, and for many, it’ll be decades before they can pay it off.
Despite what Phoenix would have you believe, it really does depend where you get that degree. Only those going to elite schools can count on their college degree helping them get a well-paying job.
In December, Goldman Sachs issued a report saying students are better off not going to college at all than going to mediocre schools.
Currently, that means the ones ranked at the bottom 25 percent of all universities — but as the cost of college continues to increase, that’ll soon include mid-tier universities as well.
“The average return on going to college is falling,” noted the report. It now takes the average student until age 30 to “break even” on the cost of going to college; the report predicts that, by 2030, that age will be 37.
The choice of major matters a lot as well. The common story of graduates leaving college $200,000 in debt to make $28,000 a year is the stuff of nightmares, but is lived by so many.
Does it really make sense for someone to get a degree in, say, communications or journalism instead of entering the work force and learning the skills they need on the job?
What does one do to earn a political science or history degree that one can’t do on their own without paying $40,000-plus a year?
If students are really talented, do they actually need a bachelor’s degree saying so?
And what of the great number of kids who enter college each year with no clue what they want to study or what they want to be when they grow up? Why do we encourage kids (and their parents, obviously) to spend these astronomical sums so the kids could futz around on campus playing hacky sack and taking random classes?
If my kids are unsure what they want to do with their lives when they hit 18, as many kids are, I won’t be in a hurry to send them to college to figure it out.
Instead I’ll suggest they get a low-level job in the field they’d like to explore and take it from there. If they discover that they need a degree after all, they can always go back to school.
In defense of college, people usually suggest that the social aspects of the experience matter more than the education itself. In that case, online schools make no sense at all and private mid-tier schools are also a waste of money.
If the socializing is what makes college worthwhile, the smart move is to pick the best state school or community college — more bang for your buck and a comparable education that can be had at private schools costing two or three times that amount.
A college degree is still a door opener in most fields but why should it be? A degree shouldn’t be the world’s most expensive evidence that a person is able to survive four years of classes, mostly in subjects irrelevant to their field.
It’s time to end the grip that the college experience has on our imaginations. In 2016, there are plenty of paths a person can take. Let’s start encouraging our kids to choose the one that best works for them.
Seventy years ago, there was “the greatest generation.” Later, Generation X became known as the slacker generation. Today, millennials are turning out to be the anxious generation.
Numerous recent studies have shown that millennials suffer from anxiety at a much higher rate than generations that preceded them. What’s wrong with kids these days?
A lot, actually. They’re the first generation raised with Internet. The first generation to experience “helicopter” parenting. They’re at once constantly exposed on social media but also permanently sheltered by overbearing parents. They’re not the first generation to experience a rough economy, but they certainly act as if they were.
Much has been written about how millennials are tender and delicate. They’re sometimes absurd, like when they don’t eat cereal because there is, apparently, too much clean-up involved — what with the bowl and the spoon. They draw headlines like “Do Millennials Stand a Chance in the Real World?”
But the spike in anxiety is a real issue, one that shouldn’t be lumped with their “omg! lol! I can’t even” social ineptitude.
In New York magazine last week, Jean Twenge, a social psychologist at San Diego State University, offered an explanation for why anxiety among young people is at an 80-year high. She cites all the change and upheaval young people today have seen. As marriages happen later or not at all, the family structure is changing dramatically.
But the real change comes in the freedom of movement that has made it easy for people to leave families far behind. Studies have shown that having limited family in close proximity can lead to anxiety and depression.
It makes sense. In 2015, the American Psychological Association’s annual “Stress in America” survey found that people who have close family or friends to turn to in times of crises experienced less stress. Today we instill independence in our kids and tell them to forge their own paths. But we’ve stopped telling them that doing so might be easier if they stay geographically closer to us.
When I tell people I’ll encourage my kids not to move away from our family in adulthood, I’m told I’ll be “stifling” them. In reality, providing a solid family structure through geographical closeness would go a long way toward minimizing the kind of anxiety 20-somethings are now experiencing.
It’s not a crazy idea that if you live near people who love you the most, you’re more likely to be more comfortable and confident, all other things being equal.
The endless choices millennials face have also proven paralyzing. They’re the constantly-swiping-right generation. It’s always on to the next thing. And this is played out in the way they see their geographical options.
Carol Beaton, in Psychology Today, says an abundance of choices is stressing young people out: “Paradoxically, our stress befalls the generation with the most optionality yet,” she says. “This blessing could also be our curse.”
One recent survey found that about half of millennials live away from their hometown. That’s a significant number. A different study found 85 percent of adults 45 and older think it’s very important to live near their kids or grandkids. Boomers have figured out the happiness that comes with living near family.
It’s also worth noting that for a long time the story about millennials was how they were still living with their parents. That might contribute to their decisions to move way out when they do eventually leave the nest. Millennials are also much more likely to rent their homes than buy them, even when owning might be significantly cheaper — another sign of their lack of permanent rooting.
It’s not that having options of where to live is bad, it’s that we underestimate the benefit of a nearby support network when we weigh these options. It’s not a coincidence that a safe, stable life has often included remaining geographically close to family.
That’s what I’ll tell my kids: It’s good to have the choice of living far from home — but it doesn’t mean it’s the right choice.
Everyone wants an apology.
Our culture of outrage has produced a country full of the perpetually offended. And you’d better be sorry.
Often, the demand for an apology is over a slight or insult or some other mostly harmless expression of poor manners. Sometimes, though, it can get taken to extremes. And politics is usually where that happens.
Last week, for example, CNN contributor Jeffrey Lord called for Democrats to apologize for slavery. Quite some time has passed since the offense; the perpetually offended don’t care (hence, perpetual).
There have been many apology calls this election season, mostly on the gleefully politically incorrect GOP front-runner, Donald Trump, whose fans seem to enjoy when he says something despicable and then sticks to his guns and refuses to apologize.
But Trump isn’t only an offender; he’s also often the offended. Recently, he demanded former Mexican President Vicente Fox apologize for using the F-word when discussing Trump’s proposed wall along the southern border. Fox refused.
Trump also threatened to sue Ted Cruz if Cruz didn’t apologize for an anti-Trump ad he was running. That’s a rarity in the apology call, the “I’ll sue if you don’t say sorry.” Ted didn’t and Donald won’t.
Often apology calls are swapped as political spitballs. A few months ago, Hillary Clinton called on Trump to apologize for not correcting an audience member who said President Obama was a secret Muslim. None was forthcoming. Then in December it was Trump demanding an apology from Hillary Clinton for calling him “ISIS’s best recruiter.” He didn’t get one, either.
It’s not just Donald Trump or politicians, of course, but the apology call does seem to be limited to people in the public eye. After all, it’s rare that, in private, people make such a show of demanding an apology or else, though do give it a try with your spouse and report back.
There have been many high-profile apology calls in the celebrity world in the past few years. Kanye West, Charlie Sheen and pretty much all the hosts of “The View” have been called on to apologize for something they’ve said at one time or another. Before Bruce Jenner revealed herself as Caitlyn, In Touch magazine put a photoshopped Bruce in lipstick on its cover and was on the receiving end of a petition demanding an apology.
Jennifer Lawrence called on gossip monger Perez Hilton to apologize for publishing nude pictures of her that were hacked from her phone. She wasn’t satisfied with his initial apology, in which he noted that he just “didn’t think about it.”
Lawrence faced her own apology calls after she scolded, backstage at the Golden Globes, a reporter who was looking at his phone. Greta van Susteren called on her colleague Chris Wallace to apologize to Kelly Clarkson for saying Clarkson should lay off the deep-dish pizza. And so on.
It exists outside the celebrity world too. The apology call is basically the raison d’etre of organizations like the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the Anti-Defamation League.
But here’s the problem: The call for someone to apologize is as useless as it is melodramatic. As noted, few ever go on to actually apologize, seeing the call as the p.r. ploy it generally is.
And if they do, so what? How sincere can an apology be if it had to be elicited by an outrage mob? Similar to a celebrity going to rehab after behaving badly when they have nothing to rehabilitate, any apology that follows an apology call is probably being done to move the conversation along. Often the apology ends up being of the “I’m sorry if you were offended” variety, which is really not an apology at all.
It’s time to end the insincere practice of calling for an apology to shame an opponent or gain attention for yourself.
Let’s make “I’m sorry” mean something again. Taking responsibility and apologizing when you’ve done something wrong are values we could use more of in public life. But forcing someone to say they’re sorry negates its worth.
End the apology call, save the apology.
US News and World Report recently analyzed 100 American cities and found New York City to be 96th based on cost of living, the job market and general quality of life.
That sound you hear is New Yorkers not giving a damn.
There seems to be a study or poll like this every other day that attempts to prove you’d be crazy for moving to New York City — and nuts to stay if you already live there. And yet, each year, the population of New York increases as new people arrive and most of the old people don’t go anywhere.
The inferiority complex that fuels these anti-NYC “studies” is proof enough that they live in what is still the greatest city in the world.
Sometimes the New York haters try humor. In 2010, a piece in The Onion went viral — and continues to crop up from time to time. Its headline: “8.4 Million New Yorkers Suddenly Realize New York City A Horrible Place To Live.”
The piece was actually pretty funny. We laughed knowingly. And then we didn’t make a move for the door.
Why would we? We know we live in the greatest city in the history of the world. That’s right, in the history of the world. Who has it better than New Yorkers? We stay because we know that no other city has the energy and endless possibility that New York does. We’re open all night, all the time.
Even our Disneyfied Times Square riles up the tourists with the painted naked ladies. Our crime is low, but we still manage to be edgy. New York’s rebellious streak can’t be quashed by soda bans or gentrification.
Seattle has coffee. Chicago has something they call pizza, though it’s unclear why. Detroit has hot dogs and all the excitement of a post-apocalyptic urban wasteland. Nobody writes “goodbye to all that” tracts when they leave Milwaukee because, well, it’s Milwaukee, of course you’re leaving.
New York City has all of the above and then some. If you can’t find the best version of all those things in New York, you haven’t looked hard enough. Sure, Los Angeles has the weather — right up until it rains and Angelenos are collectively on their knees praying for mercy. No child grows up in some podunk town dreaming of the day they’ll make it to San Francisco or Portland.
If you tell kids they’ll end up in Washington, DC, they’ll wonder what they did wrong.
I’m in a Facebook group of Russian-speaking parents, 15,000 strong, mostly in the five boroughs. There’s a commenter in this group who takes great pleasure in posting articles that make New York City, and primarily Brooklyn (where many of the members live), look bad.
He posts about crime rates and housing prices and tells people they’re suckers for living there. For a while, he even seemed to get under the skin of some people in the group. And then one day he admitted that he lived in Delaware.
The group erupted into lols. Delaware! Lecturing us! Delaware could be the cleanest, nicest, most affordable place ever. But it’s still Delaware. Pro tip: If you’re looking to challenge New York, bring the heat. Don’t bring Delaware. Ever.
There’s an old saying, often passed around the Internet in meme form, that you like someone because, you love someone although. It’s an eye-roller, sure, but it’s also a perfect description of the affection New Yorkers tend to feel for their city of dreams. You can like those other cities because you get more bang for your buck or because housing is cheaper. You can enjoy having a car or a backyard. But we love New York although we don’t have any of that.
It’s intangible; it’s like love. You have to be here to understand. And hey, you probably will.
Month after month and year after year, New York gets a steady stream of dreamers ready to make it there so they can make it anywhere. Last year’s Census numbers show that New York has already met the population it was predicted to have by 2020.
Perhaps that’s why New Yorkers are so quick to pass around each new poll that shows how hard life is in The City. “Don’t come,” we tell those with an eye on our city. It’s too hard here. Go live in the cities that make the top-five list, Raleigh-Durham or Denver. Snicker, snicker.

